---
title: "Data and Business Intelligence"
description: "Securing and making data accessible for business use"
date: 2022-02-23
weight: 2
taxonomies:
  TSC2017:
    - C1.1
    - CC2.1
    - CC4.1
    - CC6.5
    - P4.1
    - P3.1
    - P3.2
  SCF:
    - GOV-01
    - GOV-01.1
    - GOV-01.2
    - DCH-01.2
    - DCH-01.3
    - DCH-01.4

extra:
  owner: SC2
  last_reviewed: 2025-04-16
  major_revisions:
    - date: 2022-02-01
      description: Initial version.
      revised_by: Ben Craton
      approved_by: Ben Craton
      version: "1.0"
---

## Purpose

As {{ org() }} moves forward into a more data driven posture, we want to leverage the information that our products provide to the business to both make decisions on how best to transition our products to best serve our customers and also to provide the same data back to our customers to gain insights into better board practices and methodologies. At the same time, we want to be cognizant of the privacy of our customers and their uses, keeping their personal and confidential information private and staying within the boundaries set for us by standards, laws and regulations in the jurisdictions we to business. The balance of these factors is the purpose of this policy.

## Defintions

- Personal Identifiable Information (PII)
  - PII is any piece of information or combination of pieces of information which can be used to identify an individual. PII need not be simply a first and last name. It could be a business title coupled with an organization name which uniquely identifies a person. PII may include but is not limited to: first name; last name; social security number or government issued ID number; sexual orientation; race; gender; login identifiers; physical characteristics such as biometrics, video, or photos; social media identifiers or posts; customer loyalty histories; location data such as physical address, IP address, or geographic location; financial information; and health care information.
- Business Intelligence (BI)
  - BI is the usage of data generated by a business's product that can be seen and leveraged by a business to drive various company and product level decisions. BI can be composed of the entirety of data within the product or only a subset of data.
- Event Data
  - Event data, also known as usage data, is information about the atomic usage of an product through interaction by an end user. A single action creates a single record that is transmitted back to the business to be saved and/or processed. Within the {{ org() }} MSA, event data is owned by {{ org() }}.
- Posted Content
  - Posted content is any information that an end user or customer fills in, writes, or uploads to the product. Within the {{ org() }} MSA, posted content is considered the property of the customer.

## Event data

### Policy

The policy of {{ org() }} regarding event data is as follows.

- No Personal Identifiable Information shall be recorded within an event data record
- No specific location information shall be recorded within an event data record
- Whenever possible, an end user may only be referenced by their unique system generated identifier
- A list of actions which trigger events to be recorded and their intended purpose must be documented and maintained

Failure to adhere to the above may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.

### Process for adding event data

During the course of feature and product development, {{ org() }} may determine that records of certain actions within the product made by users are required to understand usage or provide services to those users. In this case, the following steps should be carried out:

1. A member of the product development team identifies that an action should be recorded and creates a work item documenting its inclusion in the product. The work item should include: the name of the event to be recorded, a description of the action which triggers the event, the business use case for the records, and any aggregations that may be processed using the records.
1. A consideration by the product development team is taken to ensure that the event adheres to this policy and to the {{ org() }} MSA and Privacy Policy.
1. The product development team will document the event in the list of events currently recorded by the product.
1. After work has completed, but before the work can be incorporated into the production environment, the development team will contact the Security Group for review of the work to verify that the event has been documented and that no PII is being recorded with the event.

## Business Intelligence

Business intelligence, the method by which {{ org() }} will gain insight into usage and betterment of their products through a combination of usage data and limited posted content, requires us to balance the business cases of analyzing data with the privacy we offer to our customers and the confidentiality that they expect. Controlling this balance will be the work of the Data Change Control Board.

### Data Change Control Board

The Data Change Control Board (DCCB) will be the mechanism by which business access to various data sources for business intelligence will be gated and controlled.

#### Constituency and frequency of meetings

The DCCB will consist of no less than five members (a quorum) and must at a minimum include: the chief privacy officer (who will also act as chairman), general council, and at least one member of the {{ org() }} security team. Other {{ org() }} employees may be asked by the presiding board to join as a representative of their business group. A register of current and past members will be kept by the board. Meetings of the board will take place no less than once per month but may be called ad hoc by the chairman as business needs arise.

#### Guidelines

The DCCB will be tasked with gating the visibility of Personal Identifiable Information and other confidential and posted content from our customers to the rest of the business at large. To best accomplish this, the following must be taken into account for every decision:

- Adherence to the {{ org() }} Privacy Policy and Master Service Agreement
- Data confidentiality and contract obligations versus business value for access
- If the data can be represented by obfuscated values while maintaining business value
- Under no circumstances will PII or other contact information gathered by the products be used for the purposes of marketing unless the customer has explicitly requested contact.

#### Decision Making Responsibilities

The DCCB will be tasked with the following responsibilities.

- What data sources (e.g. databases and tables) are included in the business intelligence system for general business viewing and analysis?
- What fields, if any, of those sources should be omitted or obfuscated and how.
- What new reports or extract requests should be run or created
- What other systems, if any, should be integrated with the business intelligence system
- Any other requests pertaining to data collection or processing that are novel or in question per policy.

Decisions should be unanimous. Any request vote that is not unanimous must be tabled for further research and revisited at the next meeting or abandoned.

### Data change control board process

The process for requesting a change from the board is as follows:

1. Submit a change request via the provided helpdesk.
1. Examples include: adding a new field, adding a new table, modifying existing tables, unobfuscating fields, etc.
1. The request is added to new business for the next DCCB meeting.
1. A discussion is held on the request utilizing the guidelines provided.
1. A security and PII review of the request is undertaken and documented.
1. A vote is held on to accept, table, or reject the request. The vote must be unanimous for acceptance.
1. Documentation of the decision is made.
1. Any work to be done is given to the appropriate engineering team for implementation via the [standard SDLC](@/policies/security/secure-sdlc.md) process.

### Data requests

From time to time, a business need may arise which requires access to PII or other confidential information that has been intentionally excluded from the business intelligence system.

#### Policy

The following policy is in effect for requests made for data containing PII:

- Data requests may not be generated from or the results given to further any marketing actions.
- Results of the data file should be kept secure and only those with need to see the information may view it
- Whenever possible, customer consent should be obtained per request.
  - For requests where the data may be viewed by entities outside of {{ org() }}, this is not optional.
- Data should be securely disposed of when its business purpose has been fulfilled following the Internet Technology Security Protocol.

#### Process

1. A data request is submitted via the provided helpdesk with the following information:
   - Who requested the information and who will have access to it
   - When the information was requested and when it is needed by
   - For that business use is the information required
   - What format the resulting data will take
   - Customer consent (if applicable)
1. If the request is novel, it should be presented to the DCCB for consideration before the request can be carried out.
1. If the request is of a repeatable type (e.g. a report) and has been previously accepted by the DCCB, then it can be carried out without intervention.
1. The data request is processed, and the results placed into the desired format. The resulting file(s) must then be placed into a password protected ZIP or other secure archive file to be delivered.
1. The secured results archive is delivered via the originating ticket.
1. The password for the archive is provided via a separate means (e.g. Microsoft Teams)
